>> Speaker 1: Let's talk about Exercise 1.
So we'll kind of walk through
a few of these things.
The readme said to check to see if
there were strings that should have
been numbers, or vice versa.
There were a couple of places
where that ended up happening, so
I wanted to point those out.
The first is, if we look in
this click handler right here,
the one that starts on line 10.
This click handler's what happens when you
click the button to add the entry that
you've put into the form.
And you'll notice that we're pulling
those values directly out of the form and
then passing them onto to this
add to work function on line 23.
We're just passing them along as is.
Now the project ID and
the minutes are actually numbers.
And there are places where we
rely upon those to be numbers so
that they are matching correctly,
in particular the project ID.
We hard code the project in,
like the project name.
But the ID for the project when it's
generated, if you come to the addProject
function, you'll notice that that's
a randomly generated number.
So whatever number is passed
in from the select box,
we need to make sure that it's a number,
because there is gonna be a checked
on that check up and is right here.
To check to make sure that the project ID
that's passed in is the same as what's in
the project's element.
And you'll notice I'm using a triple
equals there to make sure that it exactly
matches.
So one option would have been for
you to relax that with a double equals.
That's one way of approaching it.
And typically speaking, I would generally
say, yeah, it's not a bad idea for
there to be a double equals there.
What difference does it make whether it's
the string or the number equivalent?
But I'm actually gonna do it the other way
because there's a bigger question at play.
Because minutes definitely
needs to be a number.
So as a rule of thumb, I don't want
to pass around or propagate a piece
of data through a system if it's not yet
in it's appropriate type representation.
So the first place for
me to fix that is right here.
So I could fix that by explicitly
coercing both the project ID and
the minutes to the number form.
So I'm gonna use the number
function to do that.
>> Speaker 1: Now I don't need to change
that triple equals to a double equals
because we're ensuring that in
all places where the project
idea's compared it's a number.
So the triple equals is fine.
You could also simplify
it to a double equals.
Based only on the notion that
if they're both numbers,
there's no reason for
the triple equals here.
The double equal suffices cuz
they're of the same type.
So either way you wanted to go about that,
you could set it as double equals or
leave it as triple equals, okay?
Now that we've made
the minutes into numbers,
you might have then started to notice,
if you tried it,
you might have then started to notice that
when it was printing out the time, it was
clearly doing some concatenation with like
an undefined value or something like that.
That's because currently,
the addition of those minutes is not
happening with the value that
is already guaranteed to be 0.
So for example, right here when we keep
track of the total project time, we're
just saying project time, essentially
incrementing it by that number of minutes.
But if projects.time has not
already been set to some number,
then now we're concatenating or
adding undefined with minutes, and
that's gonna end up as name right
cuz unrefined coerces to name.
So there's a couple of ways
you could have solved that.
You could have, in the project entry,
you could have forcibly set down here,
you could have forcibly set time to 0.
That's one way of doing it.
You could initialize it to 0.
The other way of doing it which was
a little bit more coercive Is to
coerce this thing to
definitely be a number or
to ensure this is definitely a number
using what we know about coercion.
Here the default value idiom
might have been appropriate.
So we could have said projects.time or 0.
Cuz if it's not already set, or
even if it was set, but it was set to 0,
it doesn't matter, we can use 0 as
the base point for the numeric addition.
So the default idiom seems to be
a little bit more appropriate here for
encoding our intent., which is our
intent is if it's not already set,
just use 0 as the base point.
There's another place where that happens,
and that is,
check where we add up the work.
>> Speaker 1: That happens right here.
Again, if the project entry
doesn't already have the time, so
we can default idiom,
the project entry to 0.
>> Speaker 1: Okay, so
that should take care of the items,
unless I'm forgetting something.
That should take care of
several of the items.
But there's a couple of other places where
things still wouldn't be working correct.
In particular, you might have discovered
that the output when we formatted
the time,
the output seemed to be incorrect.
And it's because I intentionally have
the order of operations here not safe to
the type conversions that we're doing.
This is something obviously that
TypeScript would have caught for you.
So this is one of those examples
of places where people would say,
well TypeScript would have let me know
that my variable was changing types.
But you'll notice that here I
changed minutes to be a string,
and then I rely upon minutes
to be checked to see whether
at 0 to just return the empty string.
You might not have caught that unless
you tried to enter in no time for
an element and
it should have printed out as empty, and
it might have been printing
out as something different.
Perhaps with a nan or something.
So here the order of those two
operations needs to be swapped.
Because we can't rely upon,
now line 150 needs to rely upon
minutes still being a number if it's
gonna do that comparison of getting 0.
We can't change it to be a string.
And especially a string would
have other stuff in it.
Or it wouldn't compare.
>> Speaker 1: Okay?
>> Speaker 1: Next we need to look at
the validate work entry function and
implement those validation rules.
First, the rule is that the description
text needed to be at least five
characters long.
Rather than re implement this function,
I'm simply gonna switch to the solution
file and show you how I did that.
You'll notice that description.length,
if it's less than five, I return false.
I have a bias here in my
validate functions to
always return a boolean,
a false or a true.
Sometimes people just
do an early return and
then rely upon the undefined that gets
returned as coercing to a false value.
Because you'll notice when you use
the validate work entry here we just do
a boolean check against it.
So you could just do a return
here without anything, but
I think this more clearly
communicates the intent.
I'm affirmatively saying the validation
failed by saying return false, okay?
And the same down here with true,
I'm saying if we get to this point,
the validation clearly succeeded and
I'm returning true.
Make sense?
So my description length check,
if it's less than five, that's a failure.
The readme says to also make
sure that minutes has to be
a non-empty value ignoring the leading and
trailing white space.
So I kinda knew right off the bat,
okay, I'm gonna need something
like a regular expression or
something like that to ignore.
The first thing is,
if I enter in something
consisting only of white space,
that's what this check is doing.
If I have something consisting only
of white space or if it's empty,
cuz I used the star here, then that lets
me know that this was a failed entry.
You'll notice in the read me it says
leaving minutes blank is not valid,
it's invalid okay?
So I wanted to check to make sure
that I wasn't leaving minutes blank.
I also wanted to check to
make sure that what was being
Put into minutes could valuably
be coerced to a number.
So I first coerced it to a number and then
checked to make sure that it wasn't NaN.
I used a number.isNaN, could have also
used object.isthere if you prefer.
And then I checked to
make sure that minutes,
given that I knew that it was in
the correct range, I checked to make sure
that minutes was within the appropriate
range where it wasn't less than 0, so
it wasn't negative and
it wasn't greater than 600.
That allows me then to set a minutes
of 0 if I didn't wanna log any
time against that particular work action,
okay?
>> Speaker 1: The less than and
greater than here are taking
advantage of implicit coercion.
I did not,
at the top of my validate function,
explicitly coerce minutes to a number,
and then do my checks against numbers.
Why didn't I do that?
Anybody spot why?
>> Speaker 2: Cuz you have-
>> Speaker 3: Is it the?
>> Speaker 1: What's that?
>> Speaker 3: The regex?
>> Speaker 1: Yeah,
because I wanted to test,
if I hit coerced minutes to a number,
like if I say minutes= Number,
all right cuz the first time I was making
this exercise that was my first approach.
And then I thought wait a minute.
What happens if somebody leaves it blank,
it's an empty string,
and what's that gonna coerce to?
That's gonna coerce to zero,
zero is supposed to be an allowed value
here according to the validation rules,
that's an allowed value, but
empty is not an allowed value.
So I can't coerce first
before I check whether or
not it's been passed in as
an empty string, make sense?
So I needed to do my check first
against the string value, and
then do my check against
the coerced value.
I took advantage of the fact that on
lines 35 and 36 here that minutes,
that the less than and greater than
operators will automatically coerce
those to numbers, since they're doing
a comparison with numbers, okay?
>> Speaker 1: And that represents
the work to do on the exercise.
So what questions can I
answer about exercise one?
>> Speaker 2: Can you please explain,
what happens if we remove
the line number is NaN.
>> Speaker 1: This one?
>> Speaker 2: Yeah, I mean, what case,
I just don't quite get what case
that [INAUDIBLE] correctly.
>> Speaker 1: So
if we compare a string with a number,
like if minutes came in as a string, and
it was something other than a number
representation, then what would happen.
Let me just.
I'll literally comment it out.
I gotta remember to undo it.
I'll literally comment that out.
>> Speaker 1: So if I type in a you
notice that it allowed it through.
Now why did it allow it through?
That obviously ended up
failing with this name thing.
Why did that pass through
the validation function?
Well, first of all,
it failed this check, right?
But then we asked the question,
is quote A less than zero?
That was the first question, and
when there's a string involved, it's gonna
actually do a lexicographic check which is
alphabetic character check in ASCII code.
Quote A is not less than zero.
And it's also not greater than 600.
So it failed both of those tests.
Because NaN, even if it was doing
the number check NaN is not less than 0,
nor is it greater than 600.
So lexical graphically or numerically,
NaN would pass through just fine here.
Which is not what we want.
So we need to test for the NaN.
>> Speaker 2: So in the comparison,
it was converted to a number.
Which would make it a NaN.
And then automatically.
>> Speaker 1: Well, let me answer
that definitively by modeling for
you how you should answer these questions.
If you don't have somebody's book handy,
which we could go and
look at my book but
let's just see what the spec has to say.
It is section.
>> Speaker 1: 7 of
the abstract operations.
And operations on objects.
>> Speaker 1: So
these are those algorithms.
Remember the abstract equality one, right?
We looked at that one already.
7.2.13, Abstract Relational Comparison
is the less than and greater than.
So let's see what this algorithm says.
See if I can figure out what
it's talking about here.
The comparison x less than y, where x and
y values produces true, false, or
undefined.
In addition, it takes a Boolean flag
named LeftFirst as a parameter.
We're gonna assume LeftFirst.
So we were asking if the string A was
less than 0, why would that fail?
So it said if the left flag
is true which it would be,
then we wanna take primitive of x
which it's already a primitive.
>> Speaker 1: Okay so here it says if both
comparisons are already strings then it's
gonna do a lexicographical Comparison.
That's what it's doing here.
It's gonna look at string characters and
do that comparison.
Otherwise, it's gonna make
them both into numbers.
So it would have taken that quote A and
made it into a number.
And then it had the 0, and
it would have said is NaN less than 0?
So then we have here.
>> Speaker 1: See, nX.
nX would be NaN, because it was the quote
a that got coerced to a number,
so now it's the number
representation of it, and
it's saying if nX is NaN,
return undefined.
So that less than operation
wouldn't have returned false,
it would have returned undefined.
But undefined is a false value right?
So that would have failed that condition.
The exact same logic applies when we
try the court a greater than 600.
Is that it's gonna make quote A in demand
and NaN is not greater than 600 for
the exact same reason.
So both would have been undefined and
undefined.
And both of those are false.
So both those test fail.
>> Speaker 2: Just, my approach
was different, I used a return and
actually compared that this is greater or
equal than 0 or less than equal to 600.
That's why it worked in my case.
>> Speaker 1: Okay, so the greater than or
equals actually does something interesting
and I won't get fully into that.
This is covered in the types and grammar
book, but we think that greater than or
equals does the same thing as doing
greater than or an equality comparison.
Turns out greater than or equals does
the less than and negates the result.
So what was the last thing?
The last thing was undefined.
>> Speaker 2: Was undefined.
>> Speaker 1: And then we would've
negated that to make it true.
So that's why it worked.
It's one of those happy accidents for you.
>> Speaker 3: So as for kinda a bonus for
this exercise, you ask how would you go
about writing simple tests to test
the behaviors of this application?
How would that be different from
the function validate work entry
is the function validate work entry
just kind of a data validator.
>> Speaker 1: It's an input validator,
but that's not testing the application.
What I meant by testing the application
is if I call the add work entry to
whatever that function's called,
>> Speaker 1: Add work to project.
If I called add work to project
with a certain set of input,
does it actually end up producing the DOM
elements that I expect in exactly
the right place with exactly
the right contents, right?
That's kind of an integration-level test.
There are also unit-level tests that
could be performed on several of these.
Like, for example, the findProjectEntry,
I could validate that if I
pass in a specific projectId,
I get the project entry, if I pass
in a nonexistent one I get nothing.
So there's both unit test and
a creation test that you could do here.
I wasn't actually
expecting you to do that.
I just wanted you to think about
how would I test this project.
I'm glad you brought that up though
because as we get further along here,
you may find it to be useful because this
is a certain thing that I did when I was
writing the code.
Did I go back and fix that?
I think I did.
You might find this useful.
Nope I didn't fix that, sorry.
>> Speaker 1: That should give
us an error, and it does.
So what I did is I was doing this to make
sure as I did each iteration of this
project that it still
did the correct thing,
is I actually had sort of a unit test or
integration test,
I guess more integration test that I
just ran in the console of my browser.
So I basically called a set of calls,
I said addWorkToProject, and
I said since I knew project was
a public array I could get at whatever
the ID was that was randomly generated for
the first project.
And then give it a really long comment and
then some number.
So this was basically my unit, or
my integration test that when I ran that,
I expected to see exactly this behavior
where I had 114 is my output and
the 36 or whatever.
So I just visually made sure that every
time I made these changes to the code
that this code ran and
gave me the exact same results.
I didn't verify it fully as a test suite,
but that was kind of my ad hoc testing.
Then they'd be useful to you as you go
through exercises two through eight to
come up with some kind of
test like that for yourself.
Okay, so that represents our first core.
The types and coercion system.
Again, the takeaway there is to hope
that you will look at types and
coercion with a fresh set of eyes,
and ask,
how can I use that appropriately,
as opposed to just ignoring that topic or
making a linter,
remove any possibility of it?
Where are places I can use my knowledge
correctly to make my code better,
more expressive, more readable?